Welcome back guys.
So in this lecture I will show you how to use P I.D. controller in semi link.
We will apply this on the tank level control system we have built in the previous lectures.
As I have discussed in a previous lecture we have this tank level control problem we have here a tank.
We are providing floor rate to this tank inside this pipe seat.
So we have here.
Q2 enters this tank and Q1 leaves us as think and we have used this system in order to provide the control
actions to our tank so that when measuring the height of the thing by using this as float and providing
a reference input are to this error the ticketing device we are providing here that control action throws
his gears in order to control the open of this valve to prevent a Q2 which is provided to this thing
in order to control the height level.
And we have built this model.
This is the subsystem which contains the model of the tank and we have built this proportional controller.
We are changing.
Changing the value of key E and K in order to provide the control action to the stink.
And we have simulated this thing.
Let's reduce this time to frozen Bolton and runs a model
as you can see here is the difference.
Input is or point three.
We have some oscillations or overshoot but we haven't reached the Steady State Value which is 0 point
3.
There is a city state there.
If you want to know the value of the steady state early you can add for example from sinks you can add
display block and take away from here.
Now runs a model again.
As you can see we have value of 0 point 2 9 6 6 which is not all point 3.
So yes it's a very small city state error but actually we have a city state there.
So in this video I will replace a proportional controller was almost a AP idea controller and I will
show you how to tune this idea the controller in order to remove the steady state data.
So first I will delete the subsystem or this controller I'll move it from here from plucks I will search
for P. I.D.
Now I will find different blocks for P idea controller.
In this example I will use P idea controller pluck so double click and add to tank prop controller.
Now I will wear this P idea controller.
In order to for my control problem or as a control system if I double click on the P.A. the controller
as you can see the controller type is p I.D. proportional integral and derivative I can change to p
IPD.
P I.
And so on in the form of this piece the controller is parallel which means that the different three
controllers parallel to each other.
We have years of different values of gains of proportional integral and derivative controllers the default
values are 1 1 0.
So I will run this model using this default value in order to see the system before adding them to an
API controller and after 2 employ the controller.
So K and the will run the model by reference value here.
Here is 0 point 3 which is the desired output of the system.
Now if I double click this this is Coupe I will find that the tank level is increasing until I reach
it to this small value which is not all points 3 and it keeps increasing with time in order to to you
an API the controller to provide a certain output which is a desired output in our case we are using
some to do that so I will double click this P.I. the controller and I will hit tune
now on other graph of the response the tank side is now shown.
And I can drag these two options in order to tune my response.
For example if I want this system or the level to reach the steady state or 2 or point 3 in our example
very fast I would drag this to the right as you can see here as the response is updated and I am decreasing
the response time to a point in line 5 7 which means that this system will reach 2 0 point three and
a very small time.
If I want to increase this time just as some reach 2 or points 3 in longer time.
So for example I will add it here.
Here I can control the transient behavior if I want my system to be more aggressive which means it will
reach or the settling time of the system will be slow.
But this may adds overshoots to our system.
If you're not familiar with any parameter in the speed the controller or the tuning of the controller
you can right click at any point and click.
What is this.
So here as you can see I have opened a new window talking about trauma and Pavia
now I will use these to add value and click ok
now as you can see I have tuned my PDA controllers a proportional term is zero derivative term is zero
and actually I'm using only integral controller was a constant equals to six hundred ninety five point
one two.
OK and let's run this model in this case as you can see here I have reached two points 3 which means
that I have removed the steady state error which is expected from integral controller I won't lead this
double click the scoop as you can see here.
The system takes very small time to reach to the steady state point which is or point three.
I have a small overshoot which can be decreased by increasing the settling time so we have designed
and tuned the idea controller in order to control the level of the stick.
That's all for this video.
Thank you guys for watching and see you in the next video.